We've got some logic right here that passes all the information that is included inside of our post
request.
We're not going to start to refactor this function out into a separate helper function.
After that we're then going to replace this helper function altogether with an outside library.
So let's get to it.
All right.
So right now we have this kind of setup inside of application.
We are making a request that is a POST request to a route of forward slash right now.
That request is being handed off directly to a root handler that contains some form person logic.
And then in theory right after that we would want to do some account creation stuff but.
Well even though this works right now as we start to think about the long term of developing our application
I can immediately see see a little problem start to appear at some point time.
We're going to want to allow a administrator of our application to create a new product to create a
product that's probably going to involve some kind of form submission.
And that would probably take the form of a post request to some root like Slash products.
So this right here would be all about handling creating a new product inside of our app.
This would also have some kind of form being submitted.
So inside this other root HANDLER We would also have to have some logic included to pass the a form
or an incoming POST request or all the information on the body and then run some logic around product
creation.
So right away I can see a problem start to appear.
I have some duplicate logic between these two root handlers.
So to solve this we can extract that logic right there into as some separate function that will run
before either of these root handlers.
So it looks something like this this means that any time we get a post request to our root roots or
a post request to slash products we would want to run our form Parson logic and essentially receive
all the information at the bottom of the request before we hand it along to our final root handler that
contains the actual application specific logic that we care about such as account creation or product
creation so this so separate helper function right here.
That's going to process an incoming request is what we refer to inside of express as a middleware function
inside of express middleware functions are functions that do some amount of pre processing or computation
on a request object or a response object.
These middleware functions are ran or executed before we ever call a final root handler is middleware
functions are our primary means of code reuse whenever we are making use of Express so the idea here
is that we want to extract all of this form person logic into a middleware function.
We're then going to make sure that we run that middleware function before we call our actual account
handler which is this callback right here.
So in other words take this logic right here out run it in some other location before this executes
so let's figure out exactly how we do that get started.
I'm going to create a new little helper function.
This is going to be our middleware function right above app dot post.
I'm going to call it body parser because well it essentially passes the body of a request and then going
to take all of our form person logic I'm going to cut and paste it inside the middleware function is
always going to be called with three different arguments the first two are going to be somewhat familiar.
The first one is req and rez.
Again these are the request in response objects.
So inside of our middleware function we can run some amount of code to inspect and modify these two
arguments if we Inspector modify them and in any way those modifications are going to show up inside
of our later request handler down here that are received the same exact req and raise objects.
The third argument to our middleware function is something called next.
You might recall earlier on INSIDE THE COURSE WE DISCUSSED callback functions and promises and async
await syntax and so on.
It turns out that Express was really created before a lot of that promised stuff and async await syntax
was popular Express was created back when callback functions were really the only thing we had.
So this next function right here is essentially a callback function that is being given to you and I
from the Express framework itself you and I are definitely used to giving callback functions off to
other libraries but this is a scenario when one is being given to us.
So inside of our function we're going to do whatever processing logic we want to do.
And that logic might take some amount of time to complete.
Once you and I are complete in running all that logic and we are really confident that we've done everything
we need to do.
We're then going to call that next function which is essentially the sign that our Middleware is all
done processing and then express can to continue on and run whatever function needs to be ran.
In this case our root handler down here okay.
Now inside of here.
Let's run our actual logic to somehow process the incoming request and add some property to it or something
like that.
And when we are all done we will call that next function.
So inside of here I'm going to first wrap our wrecked up on statement with a little check.
I'm gonna say if wreck dot method is host like so that's just gonna make sure that we only tried to
pass the body of request if we are actually dealing with a post request just to show you that that property
actually exists back down here inside of my post.
I'll do a console dot log of rec just to inspect that object really quickly and verify that we have
access to that method property.
So I can save this and run it really quickly.
I'll go back to look 3000 entrance and dummy information and submit the form and then go back over to
my terminal.
So here's our console log of that Rec object and you can see that it is absolutely chock full of different
information.
There are a ton of ton of different properties on it so we can scroll through here just a little bit
and see all the different properties we have access to so hopefully inside of here we eventually find
a method property so we can scroll scroll scroll and you'll see eventually.
Yep right there there is a method property inside of that Rec object right now is equal to the string
of post
so back inside of our middleware we're gonna say if method is post let's do that parsing logic otherwise
if it is not post it's all put on an else case down here.
That means that we don't care about doing any processing here whatsoever.
So I will instead call the next function which remember is the callback that is given to us whenever
we call that it is our sign that we are all done with our processing.
So now if it is a post request we'll do all of our arson logic and then down here rather than doing
a console log we're going to instead take all that form data and I'm going to assign it to the body
property of the request.
So I'll say wrecked body is form data
so now if we go back down to our root handler down here that Rec object should have a dot body property
assigned to it and it should be the exact form data
alas we have to do after we update that wrecked body property is called the next function.
And again that is a sign that we are all done here and express can continue on doing whatever else it
wants to do okay.
So now to make use of the middleware that we just put together we're going to take that middleware function
and put it right in front of our root handler for our callback function on our right handler here.
So right before our callback function I'll say body parser like so.
So now Express is going to interpret this as meaning whenever we get a post request to forward slash
run this function.
And then once that function calls its next callback take the wreck and raise objects and pass them through
to the next function so you can think of middleware as essentially being middle or functions that are
in the middle of a request handler.
We can't have many different Middleware is wired up to one single request handler.
So if we had another middleware called like I don't know how about validate something we could add it
in right there like so.
But in this case we only have one middleware right now okay.
So let's now save this.
We're going to expect to see the same console log we saw before of that form data object so I'll save
that.
I'm going to go back over to look those three thousand.
There was some information in it sign up go back or in my terminal go down to the bottom and sure enough
there is our information.
So same thing we had before but now we have this very convenient middleware function that we can reuse
many times inside of our project.
Anytime that we expect to receive a post request that has some data that needs to be passed this looks
pretty good.
But like I said having to write this thing out manually not the best thing in the world because there
actually are some really big holes with our implementation right now.
So we're going to take a pause right here.
Come back the next video we're going to replace this body parts or middleware we just put together with
an outside library that's going to work much better than what we have right here.